# internationalisation

A Clojure library designed to provide simple interationalisation of user-facing messages.

## Usage

To use this library in your project, add the following leiningen dependency:

    [org.clojars.simon_brooke/internationalisation "1.0.0"]

To use it in your namespace, require:

    [scot.weft.i18n.core :refer [get-messages]]

There is only one function you should need to use:

### get-messages

    (get-messages accept-language-header resource-path default-locale)

Return the most acceptable messages collection we have given this accept-language-header. Do not use this function directly, use the memoized variant get-messages, as performance will be very much better.

* `accept-language-header` should be the value of an RFC 2616 Accept-Language header;
* `resource-path` should be the fully-qualified path name of the directory in which message files are stored;
* `default-locale` should be a locale specifier to use if no acceptable locale can be identified.

Returns a map of message keys to strings.

See [RFC 2616](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt).

## The translation files

Obviously, this only works if you provide files with translations of your interesting strings. These files should contain Clojure maps, and the file names should be the locale string for which the file is relevent followed by the extension ".edn". All the translation files should be in the same directory.

In this project you will find two very simple example files, which should give you the idea:

### en-GB.edn

```
;;;; This is a British English translation file.

{:pipe "This is not a pipe"}
```

### fr-FR.edn

```
;;;; This is a French translation file.

{:pipe "Ceci n'est pas une pipe."}
```

## Documentation

Documentation may be generated by running

    lein codox

## License

Copyright © 2017 Simon Brooke

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.
